# Football-Match-Winning-Prediction

This Project learns and predicts the outcomes of English Premier League
Matches using Machine Learning Techniques. A complete report is attached
in the github files list.

## Abstract:

This project presents an extension of earlier work in using artificial
intelligence to predict football match results. An expanded model is
described, as well as a broadening of the area of application of the
original work. Several classification algorithms including ***Logistic
Regression*, *Multi-Layered Perceptron Classifier*, *Random Forest
Classifier*, *K-Nearest Neighbours Classifier,* and *Gaussian
Classifier*** from the Scikit machine learning library are used to create
a model which forecasts the outcomes of a certain football match. The
model is presented with several features that attempt to capture the
quality of various sporting teams. Out of all the algorithms used, the
most efficient were ***Logistic Regression*** and ***Random Forest
Classifier***.

**Keywords:** \[Scikit, Logistic Regression, MLP, Random Forest,
KNN, Gaussian Classifier\]

### Problem Statement: 

In this project, the Premier League matches are our primary emphasis
(England Football League). We worked on this project because have a
strong interest in statistical modeling and prediction and are
enthusiastic football fans. This topic provided an excellent opportunity
to combine these two interests. We will forecast two probabilities for
each game: the chances that the home team will win and that they will
lose. These anticipated probabilities may be helpful in assessing the
accuracy of our models by predicting the outcome of each match, which
will be correlated with the largest anticipated probability. To produce
a predicted result that might take either of the two options---a home
win or an away win---we employed logistic regression, a random forest
classifier, an MLP classifier, and a KNN classifier.

## Dataset details:

[***[https://www.kaggle.com/code/saife245/football-match-prediction/data]{.underline}***](https://www.kaggle.com/code/saife245/football-match-prediction/data)

We have analyzed data from different sources corresponding to Premier
League match results from the 2000/2001 season to the 2018/2019 season.
As mentioned, we will be working with data from the last 20 seasons of
the Premier League which means we are currently looking at 6840 rows and
40 columns. Some of the key features of the dataset include Home Team,
Away Team, FTR, HTP, ATP, Home Team, and Away Team Forms (Previous 5
matches), etc.

## Classification Algorithms:

Following are the classification algorithms that were used:

-   Logistic Regression

-   Random Forest Classifier

-   MLP Classifier

-   KNN Classifier

-   Gaussian Classifier
